RENESIS(1)                       User Commands                      RENESIS(1)

NAME
       renesis  -  energy-aware  logic  synthesis for adiabatic and reversible
       technologies

SYNOPSIS
       The C engine. This is the fast one, and it is  what  most  runs  should
       use.

       csrc/renesis [options] netlist
       csrc/renesis --convert out.fmt [options] netlist
       csrc/renesis --list-tech|--show-options|--help

       The Python driver. Slower, and it owns the surfaces the engine does not
       have.  PYTHONHASHSEED=0 is a determinism requirement and the driver re-
       fuses  to  start without it; the renesis wrapper script sets it, so ex-
       port it only when calling the module directly.

       export PYTHONHASHSEED=0
       renesis [options] netlist
       python3 scripts_adiabatic/renesis.py [options] netlist
       renesis --convert out.fmt [options] netlist
       renesis analyze --relation file [options]
       renesis ui
       renesis --list-tech|--show-options|--help

DESCRIPTION
       renesis maps a combinational netlist onto a target technology  and  re-
       ports  the  energy the mapped network dissipates per cycle. It is aimed
       at families whose cost is not  counted  in  gates:  adiabatic  and  re-
       versible  logic,  where the charge returned to the power clock, the se-
       ries depth of a conducting path and the number of buffer stages  decide
       the result.

       The flow is a fixed sequence of stages:

           parse  -> [netprep] -> [re-synthesis] -> tag sweep -> cover and map
           -> buffer insertion -> energy report

       Two energy tables are reported for every run.  T1 is the uncapped  dis-
       sipation of the mapped network.  T2 is the dissipation after the series
       bound of the target family has been enforced by buffer insertion. Every
       optimization in the tool is gated on both: a candidate is accepted only
       when  it  improves  one table and worsens neither. A pass can therefore
       consume runtime and hand the netlist back unchanged, and  that  outcome
       is reported rather than hidden.

       Two  front  ends  exist  and are kept in agreement by a byte-level con-
       tract. The  orchestration  driver  (renesis,  a  shell  wrapper  around
       scripts_adiabatic/renesis.py)   sequences   the  stages  and  owns  the
       multi-run surfaces. The C engine (csrc/renesis) implements  the  stages
       and  is roughly an order of magnitude faster. Both read the same option
       table and the same technology description, so a setting means the  same
       thing on either. Options that only the driver can honour are refused by
       name  in  the  engine rather than silently ignored; see PARITY BOUNDARY
       below.

       Every run is deterministic.  PYTHONHASHSEED=0 is required by the driver
       and asserted at startup.

ACCEPTED INPUT
       Verilog (.v), ISCAS (.isc), PLA (.pla), AIGER  (.aig,  .aag),  ISCAS-89
       bench  (.bench) and BLIF (.blif).  The driver accepts all of these; the
       engine accepts .v, .isc, .pla, .aig and .aag.

OPTIONS
       Every option in the table can be set two ways: with its dedicated  flag
       where  one  exists,  or with --option NAME=VALUE for any option at all.
       The complete table, with defaults and a description of each, is in REN-
       ESIS-OPTIONS-LIST.md, which gives it twice: once as the engine  accepts
       it  and  once  as the driver accepts it. The options most runs need are
       listed here.

       Most of the dedicated flags below exist on the driver only. On the  en-
       gine, use the --option NAME=VALUE form instead; see PARITY BOUNDARY for
       the exact split.

   Target
       --tech name
              Target  technology,  read from config/technology/name.json.  De-
              fault tgate_sl6.

       --list-tech
              List the available technologies and exit.

       --tech-dir dir
              Read technology descriptions from dir instead of the shipped di-
              rectory.

   Covering and mapping
       --k n  Cut size for the K-feasible cover, 4 to 16. Default 12.

       --cover mode
              tech (default) prices a cover against the technology cost model;
              switching prices it against estimated switching activity.

       --route mode
              auto(default), shallow or structural.

       --cap n
              Buffer-insertion cap: the longest series chain permitted  before
              a buffer is inserted. Defaults to the target family's own series
              limit.

       --tag-trials n
              Monte-Carlo trials in the activity sweep. Default 4000.

   Re-synthesis passes
       All  are  off  unless  asked  for, because a default run is meant to be
       fast.

       --netprep
              Structural preprocessing before covering: hashing, balancing and
              local rewriting.

       --davio
              Affine-cut (Davio) extraction: a cut that  is  affine  in  every
              variable is re-emitted as an XOR tree.

       --elim mode
              Bounded  elimination  and  algebraic  extraction: none(default),
              single or both.  The pre-v89.2 spelling --factor still works.

       --prefix
              Parallel-prefix re-synthesis of adder-like structure.

       --linwin ,  --mowin
              Interior affine-window re-synthesis, single- and multi-output.

       --bdec Linear pre-filter: a global affine  re-encoding  of  the  output
              space,  realized  as  a decoder network at the boundary. See THE
              LINEAR PRE-FILTER below.

       --optimize-all
              Enable --davio, --prefix, --linwin and --mowin.  Not --bdec.

       --passes n
              Re-window passes per optimization, or a  per-pass  map  such  as
              davio=3,elim=1.

       --price-cap n
              Candidates priced per pass. Default 800.

       --no-prescreen
              Turn  off  the  pre-flight  screen.  By  default,  before a pass
              searches, a cheap structural test asks whether  the  pass  could
              construct  any  candidate  at all on this netlist; when it could
              not, the pass reports a screened verdict  naming  the  condition
              that failed instead of searching. The screen is a necessary con-
              dition  on candidate existence, so the mapped result is the same
              either way and only the runtime  differs.  On  the  engine,  use
              --option prescreen=false.

       These  passes  are  not free. On a 518-gate circuit a default run takes
       tens of seconds, --davio adds tens of seconds more,  and  --linwin  can
       add several minutes.  RENESIS-MANUAL.md carries the measured table.

   Cut-size ladder
       --k-ladder list
              Run  the covering stage at each K in list, for example 12,8,6,4.
              The first rung is the  incumbent  and  always  completes;  later
              rungs are priced and accepted only under the acceptance rule, so
              the  ladder  cannot  return something worse than its first rung.
              Empty (the default) means off.

       --k-ladder-s s
              Wall-clock budget in seconds for the rungs after  the  first.  0
              means no budget.

       --accept rule
              Rung  acceptance:  both (default) requires an improvement on one
              energy table and no regression on the other;  t2  accepts  on  a
              capped-table improvement alone. Applies to the ladder only.

   Output
       -o base
              Write  the  result as base.*: the technology-independent netlist
              and its statistics, and the technology-mapped  netlist  and  its
              statistics.

       --out-format fmt
              Format for the independent netlist. Default blif.

       --verilog-style style
              cells(default), iscas or assign.

       --json file
              Write  the  full  run record, including every non-default option
              and every pass verdict, as JSON.

       --schematic base
              Write  visualization  files:  base_independent.dot   (Graphviz),
              base_independent.json (Yosys JSON, which netlistsvg renders as a
              gate-level schematic) and base_mapped.dot with blocks colored by
              power-clock  phase.  Matching .svg files are written when dot or
              netlistsvg are on PATH.

       --spice-gen base
              Write base.sp, an ngspice deck of the mapped network. The device
              models are stubs, so a  transient  validates  function  and  the
              clocking discipline, not the tool's energy figures.

   Drive model
       --pi-drive name
              uniform (default), saif or transition-relation.  The drive model
              is  recorded on every figure, because the activity tags feed the
              cover: a workload-driven result is a different circuit, not  the
              same circuit measured differently.

       --saif file
              Read per-input probability and activity from a SAIF file.

       --saif-cycles n, --saif-period p
              Convert  SAIF  toggle  counts  to per-cycle activity, either di-
              rectly or by dividing the duration by p.

   General
       --option NAME=VALUE
              Set any option from the table. Repeatable.

       --options file
              Use a different option table.

       --wall-s s
              Wall-clock budget honoured by the search kits.

       --net-activity
              Measure per-net toggle rates. Reported, never priced.

       --no-check
              Skip the converter and round-trip checks.

       --show-options
              Print the resolved option set and exit. Use this to see  exactly
              what a command line resolves to before spending the runtime.

       -q     Quiet.

       -h, --help
              Print usage and exit.

MODES
       Besides synthesis, the driver has three other modes.

       --convert out.fmt
              Translation  only,  no  synthesis. The emitted file is re-parsed
              and equivalence-checked against the input, so a  converter  that
              quietly  renames or drops something fails here rather than down-
              stream.  --no-check skips that.  Writes .blif,  .v,  .bench  and
              .pla.

       analyze
              Treat  a  sequential machine given as a transition relation as a
              Markov  chain  and  report  the  reachable  set,  absorbing  and
              dead-end  states,  recurrent  classes,  eccentricity from reset,
              and, when the structure permits it, the stationary law  and  the
              per-bit tags. A machine that halts gets its precondition failure
              reported  instead of an average.  renesis analyze --help for the
              full list.

       ui     Start the synthesis server on a free port and  open  a  browser.
              Ctrl-C  stops  it. The page's option panel is generated from the
              option table, so it cannot disagree with the  command  line.  On
              macOS, renesis-ui.command does the same from Finder.

THE LINEAR PRE-FILTER
       --bdec  searches  for an invertible matrix B over GF(2) that re-encodes
       the output space, maps the re-encoded function, and  realizes  the  in-
       verse as a decoder network at the boundary. It pays only where the cir-
       cuit's  outputs are affine functions of the inputs whose supports over-
       lap enough that a combination is cheaper to build than the outputs  are
       separately:  syndrome  formers, Gray and binary code converters, parity
       trees and similar boundary logic. It is  correctly  inert  on  circuits
       without  that structure, including every circuit in both shipped bench-
       mark sets, and the run says so rather than reporting a  change  it  did
       not make. Tuned with --option bdec_wmax, bdec_pool and bdec_rounds.

THE PRE-FLIGHT SCREEN
       Every  optimization  pass  has  an acceptance gate: a candidate is con-
       structed, equivalence-checked, priced, and accepted only if it improves
       one energy table and worsens neither. A screen is a NECESSARY CONDITION
       on candidate existence, evaluated before the search:  if  no  candidate
       can  be  constructed,  none can be accepted, so the pass would have re-
       turned the netlist unchanged.  Screening therefore changes how long  an
       answer takes and not what the answer is, which is why the release vali-
       dation  checks  the  two configurations against each other and requires
       the mapped netlist to be byte-identical.

       Two passes carry one today.  --prefix re-synthesizes a carry chain,  so
       it  reports  "no  carry  chains  at l_min=N" when the netlist has none.
       --bdec realizes a row of B only when the outputs it combines are struc-
       turally affine and their supports cancel; since the search accepts  one
       elementary  row  addition  at  a time, the first accepted move can only
       produce a row of weight two, so the screen asks  whether  any  PAIR  of
       affine  outputs cancels. On the ISCAS circuits the answer is no and the
       pass stops in about the time a default run takes rather than  searching
       for a minute or more.

       A  screened  pass  says so, and names the condition that failed, rather
       than falling silent.

PARITY BOUNDARY
       The two front ends do not accept the same command lines, and  the  dif-
       ference  is  worth  stating  exactly,  because  the  failure mode being
       avoided is a setting that appears to be taken and is not.

       The engine has a small flag set: the one given under OPTIONS as --tech,
       --tech-dir,  --cap,  --option,  --options,   --json,   -o,   --convert,
       --no-check,  --tags,  --dump-tags,  --pi-drive,  --saif, --saif-cycles,
       --saif-period,   --spice-gen,   --schematic,   --bundle,   --list-tech,
       --show-options,  -q  and -h/--help.  Every other dedicated flag in this
       page (--k, --cover,  --davio,  --elim,  --k-ladder,  --passes,  --opti-
       mize-all  and the rest) is a driver spelling and is rejected by the en-
       gine as an unknown flag.

       Every setting those flags stand for is still reachable  on  the  engine
       through  --option  NAME=VALUE,  and it is honoured there, including the
       K-ladder, the pass order and the wall-clock budget. Only three names in
       the option table are  not  implemented  by  the  engine  at  all:  fam-
       ily_for_pricing, emit_buffers and no_emit_buffers.  Those three are re-
       fused  by name rather than ignored, so a command line that needs one of
       them fails instead of quietly producing a different result. A run  that
       needs them needs the driver.

EXIT STATUS
       0      The run completed and the result verified.

       1      A usage error, an unreadable input, or a refused option.

       2      An  internal  failure:  a  resource  limit, a failed equivalence
              check, or a consistency assertion that did not hold.

ENVIRONMENT
       PYTHONHASHSEED
              Must be 0. The driver asserts it and exits if it is not; the re-
              nesis wrapper sets it for you.

       CUDD_DIR
              Where the CUDD decision-diagram library is  installed.  Read  at
              build  time  by  the  makefiles,  not  at  run time. Defaults to
              $HOME/opt/cudd.

       ADSHIM Path  to  the  compiled  decision-diagram  shim.   Defaults   to
              tools/adshim/libadshim.so under the bundle root.

       RENESIS_ROOT
              Bundle  root  for  the  engine,  when  it cannot be derived from
              argv[0].  The --bundle flag does the same thing.

       ABC    Path to an ABC binary. Optional; when set, the browser interface
              adds a baseline comparison column.

FILES
       config/renesis_options.json
              The option table. Every default in this page  comes  from  here,
              and both front ends and the browser interface read it.

       config/technology/*.json
              Technology  descriptions:  cell  model,  structural constraints,
              clocking discipline.

       RENESIS-OPTIONS-LIST.md
              Every option, its default, and what it does.

       RENESIS-MANUAL.md
              The full manual, including the measured runtime table.

       validate_all.sh
              The release validation. Reproduces the published numbers end  to
              end.

       other_options_validate.sh
              Exercises the options the release validation does not reach.

       Relative paths on the command line resolve against the bundle root, not
       the  shell's working directory, because the driver changes directory to
       the bundle so its data files are findable. Use absolute paths  if  that
       is inconvenient.

EXAMPLES
       Map a circuit onto the default target and report its energy:

           csrc/renesis csrc/samples/c17.v

       The same, with a machine-readable record:

           csrc/renesis --json run.json csrc/samples/c17.v

       Target a different family and write both netlists:

           csrc/renesis --tech 2lal -o build/c432 bench/c432.v

       Turn  on a re-synthesis pass and a cut-size ladder on the engine, where
       every setting goes through --option:

           csrc/renesis --option davio=true --option passes=1 \
                        --option k_ladder=12,8,6,4 --json run.json bench/c880.v

       The same run on the driver, where the dedicated flags exist:

           export PYTHONHASHSEED=0
           renesis --optimize-all --k-ladder 12,8,6,4 --k-ladder-s 600 \
                   --json run.json bench/c880.v

       Check what a command line resolves to before committing the runtime:

           csrc/renesis --option auto_bdd=true --show-options bench/c432.v

       Price against a real workload rather than a uniform drive:

           csrc/renesis --pi-drive saif --saif traces/c880.saif \
                        --saif-cycles 100000 bench/c880.v

       Build the 2LAL pipeline buffer stages instead  of  only  pricing  them.
       This one is driver-only:

           renesis --tech 2lal --emit-buffers bench/c432.v

       Translate a netlist, with the round-trip check on:

           csrc/renesis --convert out.blif bench/c432.v

DIAGNOSTICS
       Every  non-default  option  is echoed in the run header and recorded in
       the JSON record, so a result always carries the  conditions  that  pro-
       duced  it.  Each  re-synthesis  pass reports its verdict, including the
       case where it found no candidate that  improved  either  energy  table.
       Each ladder rung reports which K lost and by how much.

SEE ALSO
       RENESIS-OPTIONS-LIST.md,  RENESIS-MANUAL.md, RENESIS-BACKGROUND.md, MA-
       COS-SETUP.md, PLATFORMS.md.

AUTHOR
       Mitchell A. Thornton.

BUGS
       Report issues on the project repository.

Renesis v92.3                     August 2026                       RENESIS(1)
